#summary Compliance with CAP Regulations
#labels Phase-Support,Phase-Requirements

= Introduction =

This outlines how Squadron-Manager complies with the relevant Civil Air Patrol Regulations, Manuals, and Pamphlets.  Below are relevant CAP Publications that we attempt to Comply with

|| *Regulation* || *Description* || *Copy compliance <br> is Based on* ||
||[http://capmembers.com/media/cms/R001_002_15BAF8B12FA4B.pdf CAPR1-2]||Personally Identifiable Information||3 Apr 12||
||[http://capmembers.com/media/cms/R010_002_06448D9F87459.pdf CAPR10-2]||Files Maintenance and Records Disposition||16 Feb 11||
||[http://capmembers.com/media/cms/R035_005_489E25C089E93.pdf CAPR35-5]||CAP Officer and NCO Appointments and Promotions||16 Mar 10||
||[http://capmembers.com/media/cms/R039_003_83459660D4F44.pdf CAPR39-3]||Award of CAP Medals, Ribbons, and Certificates.||7 Feb 12||
||[http://capmembers.com/media/cms/R052_016_2011_02_BFAB729553AB1.pdf CAPR52-16]||Cadet Program Management||1 Feb 11||
||[http://capmembers.com/media/cms/u_082503080020.pdf CAPR110-1]||Internet Operations||1 Jan 00||

*_Please Note:_*Squadron-Manager comes with no warranty, and there is no guarantee of its compliance with Civil Air Patrol Regulations, Manuals and Pamphlets.  There will be bugs that may interfere with this compliance.  If you find such a bug please report it in the issues, and we will try our best to remedy this problem.

*Note:* We can only secure our software, in order to ensure compliance, the server that Squadron Manager must be securely configured, and maintained.  Please follow [install#Securing these steps]

*Legal Note:*  Squadron Manager comes with no Warranty, and no Guarantee of being secure.  If you find a security leak please immediately notify the proper commanders as outlined in CAPR1-2, and then let us know of the issue either on [https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/squadron-manager-users Our Google Group], [https://code.google.com/p/squadron-manager/issues/list Report it as an issue], or email me at [mailto:Micah.Gale@gmail.com Micah.Gale@gmail.com]

= Details =

Here are the exact ways that the regulations are complied with.

==CAPR1-2==

This Regulation outlines the requirements for protecting Members' Personally Identifiable Information.  The developers of Squadron Manager take a Security First philosophy in creating and maintaining Squadron Manager to safeguard CAP members' information.  [DevelopingPhilosophy#Security_First This page] details this philosophy, and the exact security software security measures in place.